- # Snowflake for Marketing

    - ## Introduction
        This demo consists of 2 independent solutions which gets merged into app_suite in the future. 
        - Campaign Intelligence Starter
        - Customer 360 Starter

- # Customer 360 Starter

    ## Introduction
    No longer do marketers need to be hamstrung by the fragmentation of data about their customers. With the Data Cloud, marketing and sales teams can operate from a single source of truth, build robust customer views to deliver superior experiences, maximize return on marketing and advertising investments, and drive long-term growth. 

    Furthermore, building a Customer 360 doesn’t have to feel like climbing a mountain, full of challenges, and replete with distinct data sources that make building a holistic view of your customer a mirage. Instead, marketers should work with what they have today, or start small with core customer data sources, and iterate over time as they build out a more complete picture of their customer data estate. At Snowflake, we understand this dilemma and often hear directly from customers that getting their data in a single repository, and properly modeled as a holistic Customer 360, can be both challenging as well as the key bottleneck to success. 

    “The journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step” - Lao Tzu
     Don’t get bogged down by complexity and the idea of your end-state - start enabling your customers to obtain value from their customer data today with the Snowflake Data Cloud.

    That’s why we’ve created Customer 360 Starter as a way to show how organizations can reduce the time-to-value of getting started with your customer’s marketing and customer data initiatives on Snowflake. The goal is to show how to help quickly start with two critical data sources that are common across the market: (1) the organization's CRM data in Salesforce, and (2) their click analytics data from Google Analytics, and get them on their way to begin extracting value from their customer data. 


    Note: Unifying customer data in Snowflake is the foundational first step towards a greater goal of executing the entire end-to-end marketing lifecycle using Snowflake: performing customer analytics, segmenting customers, activating campaigns, and measurement.


- #### Solution Overview
    - Access Salesforce data directly in Snowflake. There is a native connector being developed for this and is in PrPr. Technically the data from Salesforce will be available as a datashare, so all the tables configured to share at Salesforce will be made available in Snowflake as native tables. Refer to this link for more information (please note this is the only publicly referenceable link available at the moment).
    - Access Google Analytics data in Snowflake using our Native Connector that can replicate the GA click analytics data periodically onto Snowflake.
    - Once we have both these data in Snowflake, we will be cleansing these 2 datasets, transforming and merging as required to build a Customer 360 Starter view in this initial phase. 
    - The final output will be a native application for this solution.



- #### Benefits for Customers
    - Minimize latency to optimize customer experiences with a unified view of the customer.
    - Reduce costs of manually stitching data between data marts/platforms, and limit overhead of managing multiple data stores.
    - Maximize compliance, governance, and access and streamline consent management with a single source of truth. 
    - Get value from your customer data quickly and get started on your path to personalized, tailored campaigns. 
 

- # Campaign Intelligence Starter
    ## Introduction
    Today it is time-consuming and expensive for marketers to gain a holistic understanding of campaign performance across multiple channels. With the coming demise of cookies and other online identifiers, there has been a lot of interest surrounding the increasing importance of first-party data for brands. Despite the growing strategic importance of first-party data and this existing relationship with consumers, many brands fail to take ownership of data generated by advertising and come up short in their ability to leverage this data as a growth lever. To fully capitalize on data-driven marketing, brands must continue to build robust first-party data strategies and foster partnerships that can bring them valuable second-party data, but most importantly must capitalize on the opportunity of advertising data today.

    The challenge, in its simplest form, is two-fold: First, this data, much like the internal teams responsible for managing it, lives isolated from the rest of the enterprise. These siloes slow organizations and hamper marketers’ ability to granularly measure campaign effectiveness. The second challenge is the sheer volume of campaign data and channels that exist in an increasingly digital landscape. Harnessing campaign and marketing data in a single source of truth can feel like a daunting task. What marketers need is a single source of truth, un-siloed from the rest of the enterprise datasets, that acts as an analytics platform used to integrate, model, and visualize marketing and campaign performance. 

    In hopes of demonstrating how this process can be streamlined today, and how marketers can begin harnessing value from their campaign data quickly, we’ve developed Campaign Intelligence Starter, a sample of code aimed at reducing time-to-value the first steps for brands to unify their advertising data. The goal is to show how to help quickly start with two critical data sources that are common across the market: (1) Meta advertising data, and (2) LinkedIn ads data, and get organizations on their way to increasing campaign ROI. 

    Don’t let the complexity and the idea of your end-state paralyze your progress - start bringing in your campaign data to Snowflake today and accelerate your customers’ path to maximized ROI. 
    
    Note: This is our initial step towards a greater goal of identifying the ideal ad spend plan for the upcoming quarter, forecasting the revenue in these platforms for the amount spent, etc.

 
- #### Solution Overview
    - We are partnering with Airbyte to perform the data load from ad platforms like Facebook and LinkedIn to start with. These connectors are available via Snowflake Marketplace. Hence installing these connectors at the customer account can help us ingest the data into Snowflake without any other infrastructure requirement. These connectors are available for free for 30 days and hence everyone can try it before signing up with Airbyte.
    - Once the data is ingested, we will cleanse, transform, and merge these data to build our Campaign Intelligence Starter datastore 
    - The final step is a native application that can run on top of our data store to identify the total amount spent on ads, approx total revenue out of the spend, etc.


- #### Benefits for Customers
    - Build a single source of all data, across any data source, at enterprise scale and harmonize (structured and unstructured) data across third-party data providers. 
    - Draw insights from marketing and campaign data to make data-driven decisions that boost ROI.
    - Integrate with best-of-breed BI platforms to produce powerful dashboards in the platform to quickly visualize campaign performance in the context of brands’ unique business needs.
    - Reduce costs of manually stitching data between data marts/platforms, and limit overhead of managing multiple data stores.
    - Maximize compliance, governance, and access and streamline consent management with a single source of truth. 
 
